.\" Written  Oct 2012 by Olivier Charloton (oliviers.open.source.softwares@gmail.com)
.\" heavily based on the work of Steve Greenland (stevegr@neosoft.com) on syslog man.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" This manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.TH LOGPROC 1 2012-10-06 "dbgflags" "Dbgflags User's Manual"

.SH NAME
logproc \is a small software to start a program and redirects its output streams (stdout and/or stderr) to syslog.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B logproc
.RI [ options ]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page explains the
.B logproc
program, part of the dbgflags library. It allows to redirect output streams to syslog, each one shares the same syslog's facility but has its one syslog's priority. 

.SH OPTIONS
.B
.HP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-facility=\fR<facility to use in syslog's messages>
\fR 
Valid facility names are: auth, authpriv (for security information of a sensitive nature), cron, daemon, ftp, kern, lpr, mail, news, security (deprecated synonym for auth), syslog, user, uucp, and local0 to local7, inclusive.
For intended purposes of these facilities, see logger(1) and syslog(3).
.HP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-stdout=\fR<level to use for syslog's message coming from the process's stdout>
.HP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-stderr=\fR<level to use for syslog's message coming from the process's stderr>
\fR 
Valid level names are: alert, crit, debug, emerg, err, error (deprecated synonym for err), info, notice, panic (deprecated synonym for emerg), warning, warn (deprecated synonym for warning).
For the priority order and intended purposes of these levels, see syslog(3).
.HP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.HP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR

.SH EXAMPLES
.B logproc -o notice -f user echo Hello World 
\fR 
Send an Hello World message to the syslog daemon, from the facility 
.B user 
with the level 
.B notice
.
\fR 
Remark: the result is the same than using the following command:
logger -p user.notice Hello World
.PP
.B logproc -e warning tar tvz foo.tar
\fR 
The Error message produce by the tar program is sent to the syslog daemon.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by O. Charloton 

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <oliviers.open.source.softwares@gmail.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B
syslog(3), logger(1), setlogmask(3), syslog.conf(5), syslogd(8)
 
