.\" Written  Oct 2012 by Olivier Charloton (oliviers.open.source.softwares@gmail.com)
.TH ZO 1 2012-10-06 "dbgflags" "Dbgflags User's Manual"

.SH NAME
zo \program to set/get debugFlags'values of a process or one of it's loaded library and to manage its log level value.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zo
.RI [ options ]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page explains the
.B zo
program, part of the dbgflags library, which allows to list registered debug flags of modules, set or unset them and manage log level based on syslog ones.
.PP
Theses flags could be used to enable or disable part of a process or instructions like traces for examples. Each of them has an associated name to declare its meaning.

.SH OPTIONS
.B
.HP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-process=\fR<process's name>
.HP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-pid=\fR<process id>
.HP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list[=\fR<module's name>]
.HP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-module=\fR<module's name>
.HP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-flags=\fR<new flags value>
.HP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-log\-level=\fR<new syslog's level threshold value>
\fR 
Valid level names are: alert, crit, debug, emerg, err, error (deprecated synonym for err), info, notice, panic (deprecated synonym for emerg), warning, warn (deprecated synonym for warning).
For the priority order and intended purposes of these levels, see syslog(3).
.HP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-on\fR <list of bits to set on of the flags>
.HP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-off\fR <list of bits to unset on of the flags>
.HP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.HP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR

.SH EXAMPLES
.B zo -l 
list all modules who have registered dbgflags
.HP
.B zo -i <PID>
list all registered dbgflags of the process having a process ID equal to <PID>, and the name of its registered loaded libraries if any.
.HP
.B zo -i <PID> -g <new flags value> 
set new flags value of the process having a process ID equal to <PID>
.HP
.B zo -i <PID> -m <module's name>  -g <new flags value> 
set new flags value of the library <module's name> loaded into the process having a process ID equal to <PID>
.HP
.B zo -i <PID>  -o 1 2 3 -f 4 5 6
set flags 1, 2, 3 on and 4, 5, 6 off, of the process having a process ID equal to <PID>

.SH AUTHOR
Written by O. Charloton 

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <oliviers.open.source.softwares@gmail.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B
syslog(3), logger(1), setlogmask(3), syslog.conf(5), syslogd(8)
 
